Pneumonia means inflammation of
the lungs due to infection,
most commonly a viral infection,
such as a cold or flu.
Bacteria, fungi,
or other organisms
can also cause pneumonia.
Risk increases with old age,
youth, or a suppressed immune system.
Hospitalized patients also have an
increased risk of pneumonia
that can be difficult to treat
and is a growing concern.
Symptoms of pneumonia vary:
sudden chest pain,
fever,
chills,
cough,
and shortness of breath.
Pneumonia kills thousands of
people each year,
particularly children.
Treatment depends on the cause:
antibiotics for bacterial infection,
over-the-counter medications
for symptoms of viral infections,
such as cold and flu,
and anti-fungal medications
for fungal infections.
Severe pneumonia may require
hospitalization for 3 or 4 days
to receive intravenous medications,
supplementary oxygen,
and usually a chest x-ray.